--- Page 1 ---
Fig. 1: PSM - Possible and definite buyers
Fig. 2: Optimal und Indifference PricingPoint
PSM is a method for determining the optimal price. It is based around four questions:
The following statements can be derived from these questions:
For each participant, the prices which fall between "good value" and "still acceptable" aredetermined. In this price range, the participant is considered to be a definite buyer. In addition,the prices between "too cheap" and "too expensive" are determined. In this price range, theparticipant is considered to be a possible buyer. A frequency diagram showing the relevant pricerange for all participants indicates the price span in which a particularly large number of definiteand possible buyers can be found.Here, the designations "definite buyer" and"possible buyer" must be put into the properperspective. These designations areapplicable under the condition that there areno competing products. In other words, theybasically state whether the product woulddefinitely or possibly be considered forpurchase at a particular price. If there areseveral products at one particular price onthe market for which there are definite or possible buyers (and this, of course, is normally thecase), each of these products would only be selected by only a certain portion of this group ofpotential buyers. In this method, the competitive environment is not taken into account.
The price point at which the number of potential customers who view the product as either tooexpensive or too cheap is at a minimum is known as the Optimal Pricing Point (or the PenetrationPrice). Here, the number of persons who would possibly consider purchasing the product is at amaximum.The Indifference Pricing Point (also calledthe Perceived Normal Price) is the point atwhich the number of persons who view theproduct as being good value is equal to thenumber of persons who view it as beingexpensive.
Preference AnalysesPrice Sensitivity Measurement (PSM)
What price would represent a good value (is appropriate)?What price would be expensive, yet still acceptable?What price would be too cheap, thus raising doubts about quality?What price would be too expensive, thus ruling out any consideration of purchase?Definite / possible buyers
Optimal / Indifference Pricing Point
Point of Marginal Inexpensiveness / Expensiveness
IfaD - Price Sensitivity Measurement (PSM)http://www.ifad.de/en/consulting/661-price-sensitivity-measuremen...
1 von 2 05.09.2016 09:34

--- Page 2 ---
Fig. 3: Point of MarginalInexpensiveness/Expensiveness
The frequency distributions for "good value" and "expensive" are converted into the inversedistributions "not good value" and "not expensive".The intersection point between "not good value" and "too cheap" is known as the Point ofMarginal Inexpensiveness (also called the Lowest Reasonable Price). At this point, the number ofparticipants who view the product as too cheap is equal to the number of persons who view it aspoor value for money. If the product becomes cheaper, the number of persons who view it as toocheap will increase. If it becomes more expensive, the number of those who no longer view it asbeing good value for money will rise.The Point of Marginal Expensiveness (also called the Highest Reasonable Price) is the intersectionpoint between "not expensive" and "too expensive". At this point, the number of participants whoview the product as being too expensive is equal to the number of persons who view it as notbeing expensive. If it becomes more expensive, the number of participants who see it as beingtoo expensive will increase, and conversely, the number of persons who view it as being notexpensive will increase when it becomes cheaper.The range between the Points of MarginalInexpensiveness and Expensiveness is alsoknown as the Range of Pricing Options. Themarket price should be located somewherebetween these points.
IfaD Institut für angewandte Datenanalyse GmbHUhlandstraße 68 | D-22087 HamburgTel.: +49/(0)40/ 25 17 13 - 0 | Fax: +49/(0)40/ 25 17 13 - 33 | E-Mail: 
IfaD - Price Sensitivity Measurement (PSM)http://www.ifad.de/en/consulting/661-price-sensitivity-measuremen...
2 von 2 05.09.2016 09:34
